So just before we build our currency converter app we're going to learn one new skill and that is how
to add images to our apps.
Images are a great way to make your app visually appealing and interesting and they're super easy to
add in under a studio.
So let's just start by grabbing a couple of images.
I'm a big fan of cats so I'm going to go for a couple of cat images.
There we go.
Lovely.
Worth saying at this point that if you want to use an actual image that you find on the web in one of
your real apps and you should make sure that rewrites of the image allows you to.
But if you're just using images to test your apps for yourself then you can use anything you like.
So I'm going to take this one and control click and save image downloads.
Notice this image is pretty big 2500 about 2500.
So I'm actually going to jump over to the finder and just edit the image to bring it down to a smaller
size so that we won't have any problems with the app running out of memory when it tries to load the
image on Mac.
This is pretty easy.
You can just double click on the image to open it in preview and then click Tools adjust size and then
I'm going to change to pixels and we'll change it to about 500.
That'll be plenty for our purposes and then save and close that down.
And next we'll have
this one here looks quite adorable.
So again control click.
This one is a much smaller image.
So we'll use it in its present form.
I'm just going to rename those to Cat 1 and Cat 2.
Notice that different types.
We got a j peg and AP ngi file both of those will load fine within your Android app.
You don't need to convert them to a specific type.
All right so now back over to Andrei studio and to bring in our images we bring back our project structure.
And you may remember the resources folder.
That's where we're going to put our images.
So just open it up and then open up the drawable folder and that's where we'll drag out images into.
Now if you're running Windows you can just select both of those and drag them straight into the drawable
folder.
But on Mac Unfortunately that doesn't work.
You have to do a slightly more complicated process command C to copy to the clipboard and then click
on the trouble folder and then command the to paste and then click OK.
Copy the files.
And there they are.
So now we can use Cat 1 and Cat 2 in our app and adding them.
It's pretty straightforward.
We go back over to our lay out the activity main SML and came we've got a list of our widgets I can't
see image that.
So I'm just going to click on the search button and type image and there we go.
We want Image view.
We don't need our image to be a button.
Let's bring in our image that we get and we can choose an image right there that we want to use for
it.
So I'll go for that one for now.
Click OK.
And there it is.
Simple as that.
Just give us a bit more room.
The only thing we'll want to be aware of is how to lay out our image.
So at the moment is a little bit off the edge of the screen.
So of course you can resize and add margins in exactly the same way that you would any other element
that's going to drag it back in.
The only thing I want to bring to your attention here is the scale type which offers a variety of different
ways
of squeezing your image into the image container so you can try those out.
They're all reasonably self-explanatory probably fit center.
It's going to be most likely what you want that will fit it and center it will be as large as possible
but you'll be able to see the whole image within the box.
There we go.
All right.
So that's how you add images to your apps.
Super easy.
But of course I want to give you a bit of a challenge to practice this and it's going to extend your
skills a little bit as well.
So what we're going to make is this.
Now on the surface it looks like just the image of our cat.
But it does something a little bit special and that is when we tap the button it changes the image to
our second cat.
And that's why we downloaded to cat images in the first place.
So to complete this challenge you're going to need to do a little bit of googling online to find how
you update the image within an image view using code.
When a button is pressed that will be a good bit of practice for you finding solutions to coding problems
online.
One other small thing that you might come across is aligning this button at the bottom right there.
That's not quite as easy as it might seem.
I'll give you a little hint.
I'd recommend looking in all attributes and then look at the constraint options and play around with
a few of those and see if you can make the button align to the bottom right of the screen.
OK.
So a little bit more than the usual challenge.
Show your rise to it.
Best of luck.
All right.
Well here we go.
So I'm going to start a new project
I'm going to call it kept switching
next and all that effort options again having done this four or five times should be pretty straightforward
for you.
And here we go.
So let's begin by bringing our images into our apps.
We know how to do that now.
So just select them in the Finder or Windows Explorer and then paste into the drawable folder.
Open not quite ready yet.
Dragon Habegger.
All right.
So we've got our images.
Now I'm going to get rid of Welte search for my image view and then drag it in and we'll sort of with
that one and then switch to Kattie.
We guys are going to try to make it full screen.
Lovely.
And we'll set the scale type as we did before to fit Senda.
And we just set the margins as well.
So it will be full screen on any device.
I'll change the ID to cat image view so that we know which image view we're talking about even though
we've only got one and then we just need a button to be switched on and we'll put the button on top
of the image.
The bottom right of the screen
and I'll call it kept switch button
and on click in a minute all create the method.
Switch
OK.
Now we're going to go over and write some code one habit that I think it's worth getting in see is just
running your app as soon as you've created the layout.
That just means that all the set up can be done while you're writing some code and then it's much quicker
to run it when you're actually ready to test it out.
All right.
So let's write our method called Switchcraft as we're used to.
It's going to be a public method that doesn't return anything.
It's called switch cat and it accepts a variable of a type with a capital V old and had the view class
and that variable will be called view with a little of it and for now we'll just do a quick log.
Let us know that the button has been pressed OK let's check our app.
Oh and we've got a bit of an issue that the button is at the top left and we want it at the bottom right.
So let's just see how we're going to achieve that.
As is often the case there's a number of different ways of doing it.
By the way I'm going to show you is the way I use most often and that is to look at the more advanced
constraints list in the attributes list and then we want the bottom of the bottom to be aligned to the
bottom of this box here which is our constraint lay out which is the parent element of the button.
So that will now align the button to the bottom of the parent element and we also want the right of
the button to be aligned to the right of the parent element that should do it.
If you want to add in a bit of a margin just so that it's not completely at the bottom right then you
can do that as well.
Maybe 10.
OK.
Just going to run that again just to be sure that the button is now displaying where we wanted to be.
It looks like with those areas that we have set up the constraints correctly.
Let's find out
and there we go.
Wonderful.
So how have you managed to solve that somewhere or other as we've written our code already we should
be able to tap the button and get a response in the logs Let's have a look.
Yep.
Brilliant.
OK.
So all that remains is to work out how to switch the image from the first cat to the second using the
button.
And as I suggested earlier going to do a quick Google search to see if we can find a solution to this.
Now when you're searching for Android development code I normally put both Android and Java at the beginning
of my search and then I'll go for something like Update image dynamically dynamically implies that we
want to do it automatically using code as we go.
Top result takes us to a Web site called Stack Overflow.
If you're a seasoned coda you've doubtless gone to a stack overflow many many times.
If you're not then get used to it.
It's a really great site where people answer each other's questions and it almost always appears at
the top of Google when you search for a coding question like we just did.
OK so looking at the top answer here this looks to be exactly what we want.
So it's worth taking a moment to make sure that the code does what we think it does.
So we're creating an image free variable called image which is of a type image view and finds the image
view that's already in place.
Greg we've got one of those and then it just sets the image resolves to a specific resource inside the
drawable resources area.
Looks pretty perfect so let's copy that with Control-C and then
paste it into our code.
When the old enter to get the image view class and of course we need to update the code to make sure
it works with our own app.
We don't have an image we call test image.
We have an image view called or with an idea of cat imagery.
So let's update that to cat image.
There we go.
And then we want to set the image results.
We don't have a little code x x x how one is called Cat 2.
And there we go.
So that should update our image view from Cat 1 to Cat 2.
Let's take a look.
The button.
There we go.
Fantastic.
So I hope you figured out how to do that yourself if you didn't worry.
Early days yet you'll definitely get the hang of searching online for solutions to programming problems.
All right so now we've mastered images going to build our big app for this section which is our currency
converter.